Right now in our application there is actually a bit of an issue if we ever refresh our application
whether because we updated our code or let's say for example in a live setting if our user refreshes
the page they'll actually lose everything they have in the store including their cart items so if we
were to refresh our reducer gets reset completely which makes a lot of sense because our application
is re instantiating and all of our initial states for all our reduced hours are being loaded.
So it's like the app is in a brand new state.
The only reason their user is being set is because our users authentication status is not being stored
by the application it's being handled by firebase off.
If you remember when we did that lesson so far based off gives us session persistence because it's aware
of until when the user signs out it's not going to actually and the session where asked for everything
else in our store we don't have any kind of storage of anything related in order to persist.
The State of the carte items that we're adding across our application even on refresh or closing the
window.
Now we want to fix this because in most e-commerce Web sites it persists the user's cart in some way
shape or form if not when the user closes and re opens the Web site at least if the user refreshes in
the same session in the same tab.
Now there's multiple ways that we can tackle this problem one way is using firebase where we would store
our cart items and then they would belong to our user so that whenever the user signs in or whenever
we're aware that a user off state has changed based on our app dot J S's user wrath on snapshot getting
fired we can also pull in our cart which we would store in our database but we're going to do that actually
later on in the course in a more advanced firebase lesson.
But right now what if we just wanted to leverage what we had on the front end.
What if we wanted to just store our cart items.
Well if you're familiar with local storage it's actually possible.
And the reason why it's possible is because our reducer state is pretty much just Jason objects.
They're just large Jason objects which is easy to store and easy to update especially because our reduced
hours are just functions that return objects dates right.
So it's really easy you can imagine if in some way we could store the state of what the reducer is in
and then when the app reloads we just pull it whatever we stored and then populate the reducer as such.
Now there's a really easy library called redux persist that allows us to do exactly that and it wires
in with redux so that we don't actually have to worry that much about it.
But before we explore that I want to talk about local storage because that's what the underlying tool
is being used by redux persist so let's actually spore local storage a little bit and it's pretty easy
to actually start using so we actually have access to it on our window object.
So on a window object we have access to both local storage and session storage which are both the almost
exact same means of storing something on our browser.
The only difference is that session storage persists throughout the session.
So as long as our tab is open even if we refresh the page we'll still have access to what we've stored
in session storage.
Whereas if we close the page then we would lose whatever it is that we stored in session storage whereas
local storage will persist until we clear it out.
Meaning that if we close our window close our browser will always have access to it but let's actually
explore how to use it now local storage has a get item and a set item.
So one sets the item inside the storage so it stores it and then the get lets us pull it out of local
storage and we store them under string keys right.
So we give it a key and that's what I'll store it under and then I'll also be the same key that we use
to access it.
But we have to store Strings only so let's say for example that we had a object we want to store my
object to store and it's just equal to some object with my name of equal on it.
Now in order for me to store it I would say window to local storage dots set item.
Right.
And then I would give it the key.
So let's say my item.
Now what I want to do in order to actually store it is I have to convert this Jason object to a string
and we can do that with the Jason object that we get from r javascript.
So we always have access to this and this allows us to perform certain methods on our chase on objects
such as this one called string of one which allows us to string ify our object and all it does is it
wraps this object inside of a string and it converts all the keys also to strings.
Right.
Which is required for Jason.
So we'll say Jason stratify my object to store and now we note our local store just stored it if we
want to access it again we'll just call window local storage dock get item.
I will say my item and there we see that's our object but stored as the string right.
Because we string ify it and that's what it looks like.
If we want to convert it back we can just set a new object to my retrieved object and let's say we just
call it our window local storage dock get item.
Right.
So we want to get it under our key that we set it under and then.
Now let's say we wanted to turn it into a string.
While we would say Jason dot pass.
Right which is a method on that same Jason object we're talking about let's say we do my retrieved object
one now we get our object back so really handy right.
Local storage is great for this.
If I refresh I'll see that I still have access to local storage and now if I look there's the string
we can just pass it again and now I've managed to persist this object across my application state it's
persisted.
So because all restoring our Jason objects wouldn't it be great if we could just store the state of
our cart and then persist it and then whenever our application refreshes or opens up for the first time
we pull it out of local storage and then update our reducer to show what we had stored well that's what
the library redux persistence.
But I wanted to show you what local storage was and such and storage secondaries is almost identical
to local storage but again it just doesn't store across closing the tap.
But I just want to show you what's happening under the hood with this library where it's a bringing
of redux persist.